# Stores sales volumn forcast

# Introduction
Favorita is an Ecuador-based business that specializes in supermarket retail. Our data set is taken from one of Kaggle's ongoing competitions that emphasize the importance of brick and mortar stores to estimate sales. 
The dataset includes data from various stores across the country as well as quantitative sales (sales volume) for all families (categories of items in the store) by date. The dataset also includes the number of items on promotion on a specific day at a specific store. Our goal is to forecast sales volume for the upcoming 16 days and use historical data to improve forecasts.

For brick-and-mortar retail stores, which must carefully balance how much inventory to acquire, sales volume estimates are critical. The stores are left with an excess of perishable goods if the forecasts are a little off. Accurate forecasting could help stores ensure they have just enough products at the correct time. If a store can match a product's demand with just the correct amount of supply, there will be no missed sales owing to a lack of inventory and no additional costs due to overstocking. Based on the estimates, the retailers would gain information on how to stock products, eventually retaining clients and ensuring consumer satisfaction. When it comes to perishable commodities, it is essential to ensure that there is enough and that nothing goes to waste owing to rising demand. Through this study, we also intend to assist Favorita in being profitable by examining the data based on the location .Depending on the forecasting model we ultimately select, some recommendations we would want to offer include optimizing the number of stores by boosting the number of items on promotion, implementing customer loyalty programs, and restructuring the staffing schedule.
We also believe that subjective forecasting approaches are insufficient for making decisions and must be supplemented with data science. As more products are introduced to the market and retailers strive to increase sales, complexity rises.
